Golf news as Rory McIlroy dealt PGA Tour blow and Russell Henley loses chunk of winnings

AOL

Sian Jones
Tue, June 2, 2026 at 9:42 PM GMT+10

The Valspar Championship will be moved forward six weeks in 2027 -Credit:Richard Heathcote/Getty Images (Richard Heathcote/Getty Images)
This past weekend’s key golf headlines were dominated by a PGA Tour announcement involving changes to the Valspar Championship, alongside Russell Henley securing his sixth career PGA Tour victory at the Charles Schwab Challenge.

The Valspar Championship, which is usually staged in late March, has been pushed forward by six weeks to early May (May 6–9) under the PGA Tour’s 2027 schedule. It will now be played directly before the Truist Championship, reducing the number of events in the lead-up to the Masters.

Meanwhile, Henley confidently rolled in the short birdie putt to secure the winner’s cheque of more than $1.78 million, along with additional prizes including a 1982 Schwab Scrambler. However, he will still be required to pay well over half a million dollars of that in taxes.

Here are the latest golf headlines from Mirror U.S. Sports...

Valspar move bad for McIlroy
The change to Valspar could influence how both Rory McIlroy and Scottie Scheffler approach their preparation for major championships.

McIlroy, who often takes time off after majors—following that pattern again after winning his second green jacket in April—has shown a preference for playing a tournament in the build-up to a major. He stuck to that routine when he featured in the Truist Championship just days before the PGA Championship.

Scheffler, by contrast, has expressed a preference for more rest leading into majors. The world No. 1 opted to skip the event at Quail Hollow, choosing instead to prepare away from competition before heading to Aronimink Golf Club.

AUGUSTA, GEORGIA - APRIL 12: Scottie Scheffler and Rory McIlroy of Northern Ireland walk past each other near the practice area during the final round of  Masters Tournament at Augusta National Golf Club on April 12, 2026 in Augusta, Georgia. (Photo by Ben Jared/PGA TOUR via Getty Images)
Rory McIlroy and Scottie Scheffler have different approaches to pre-major prep -Credit:Ben Jared, PGA TOURvia Getty Images
The American said: "I typically don't love playing the week before a major. It's nice to have so many tournaments that are really good. If I had it my way I would play every single week out here. But just the nature of our sport and the demand on our time and everything it's not really possible.

"If y'all were to walk with me each day of the tournament and see what we have to do in order to play one week, having to do that four weeks in a row... I wouldn't be able to perform my best. So when I show up at a tournament I want to be able to give it my best and I have to set up my schedule in a certain way and, you know, the chips kind of fall where they do."

McIlroy made his case for competing ahead of a major, stating in 2025: "Before, I'm all for. After, I wouldn't — I'm not a huge fan of it, but there's only so many weeks in the year. I really like playing the week before if it makes sense. I think, again, this week was a great indication of where my game is and what I need to think about and what I need to work on going into next week. But the weeks after majors are tough."

Henley wins Charles Schwab Challenge but faces $650K tax hit
Henley outlasted Eric Cole on the first hole of a playoff at Colonial Country Club in Fort Worth, Texas to claim his first PGA Tour victory of the year, but the financial reality of his $1.78 million prize is far less lucrative after taxes.

As a high-income earner in the top federal bracket, Henley will owe around 37% in federal income tax—more than $615,000—along with an additional $40,000 to $50,000 in Medicare contributions. As a Georgia resident, he also faces state income tax of roughly $88,000, though he avoids any state levy from Texas, where the tournament was held.

In total, his combined tax bill is estimated at close to $700,000, leaving him with just over $1 million from his winning payday.

Henley's victory marked the sixth of his PGA Tour career -Credit:Photo by Sam Hodde/Getty Images
He will also need to account for travel costs and his caddie’s share of the prize money, which typically ranges between 10 and 15 percent after a win.

While these expenses are generally classed as business costs and can reduce a golfer’s taxable income, players are still well aware of the substantial tax obligations that come with tournament victories.

Even so, Henley—whose best finish this season prior to Sunday was a T3 at the Masters—will be delighted to return to the winner’s circle for the first time since his victory at the 2025 Arnold Palmer Invitational.


