BBC

DeChambeau to focus on YouTube if LIV Golf fails

Bryson DeChambeau won the US Open in 2020 and 2024

ByHarry Poole
BBC Sport journalist
Published
6 May 2026

Bryson DeChambeau says he will focus on growing his YouTube channel and only "play tournaments that want me" if LIV Golf does not survive.

The future of the breakaway series was plunged into doubt when Saudi Arabia announced it will withdraw its multibillion dollar backing at the end of the year.

American DeChambeau, 32, last week dismissed reports he is looking to leave LIV before the end of the year as "completely untrue".

"I think, from my perspective, I'd love to grow my YouTube channel three times, maybe even more," DeChambeau told ESPN before this week's LIV tournament at Trump National Golf Club.

"I would love to. I'd love to do a bunch of dubbing in different languages, giving the world more reason to watch YouTube.

"And then I'd love to play tournaments that want me."

DeChambeau's LIV contract is up at the end of this season and he was looking to sign a lucrative new deal before Saudi Arabia's Public Investment Fund (PIF) announced it was set to pull its financial support, with reports, external suggesting he wants $500m (£370m) to stay.

The two-time US Open winner said he was "completely shocked" by the PIF announcement as he believed it would finance LIV Golf until 2032.

"I haven't had any communication. And unfortunately, things are moving on in a different direction. Obviously, they wanted to move on," he said on Tuesday.

LIV Golf, which caused a major split in 2022 when it started luring star names away from the PGA Tour with the offer of huge pay increases, is now searching to find replacement financial investment under a new independent board.

DeChambeau, who joined LIV in 2022, turned down the chance to return to the PGA Tour earlier this year under a returning member programme.

"The egos need to get dropped," DeChambeau said.

"Everybody needs to come in with a level-headed playing field, with an opportunistic mindset to grow the game of golf.

"That's why I came over here. That's why I do what I do on YouTube."