Yahoo!

PGA Championship: Aaron Rai pulls off massive shocker to claim first major victory

Jay Busbee Senior writer
Mon, May 18, 2026

NEWTOWN SQUARE, Pa. — In what was set up to be one of the most chaotic majors in golf history, Aaron Rai ended up running with the 108th PGA Championship.

Battling through a leaderboard that had two dozen different players within four shots of the lead at one point on Sunday, Rai went low when all of the contenders around him could not.

The capper came at 17. Holding onto a 2-shot lead, all Rai needed to do was par in to claim the first major championship of his career. Instead, he drained a 68-foot putt for birdie, an exclamation point on one of the most stunning out-of-nowhere victories this championship has ever witnessed.

Behind a stellar final-round 65, the 31-year-old Rai (-9) outpunched the best golfers in the world Sunday, winning by three shots over Jon Rahm (-6) and Alex Smalley (-6). In the process, Rai became just the second Englishman to win the PGA Championship and first since 1919.

“Very surreal,” Rai said. “… Definitely wasn’t trying to hole that putt [at 17]. … Amazing to see that go in.”

It is a breakthrough win for Rai who, prior to hoisting the Wanamaker Trophy on Sunday evening in suburban Philadelphia, was probably most known for wearing two gloves when he plays. Growing up in England, Rai often played through cold conditions, and two gloves provided him more warmth. He tried wearing one glove, played terribly, went back to two and has done so ever since.

“I just happened to be given these two gloves — the guy who actually makes them sent a pair over — and I got into the habit of wearing them,” Rai told GolfMonthly in 2025. “Then, a few weeks down the line, my dad forgot to put the two gloves in the bag so I had to play with one. It was terrible. I couldn’t play, I couldn’t feel the grip, so I’ve always stuck with the two gloves ever since.”

Before this week, he’d never even sniffed at contending at a major championship. He had recorded a few T19 finishes and did win the Par-3 Contest at Augusta in April, then finished 48th in his first Masters.

His lone PGA Tour victory came two years ago at the Wyndham Championship, a field that did not feature the world’s best.

The pressure showed in the early going Sunday when he bogeyed three of his first eight holes. At that point, he was three shots off the lead. But then at the ninth, staring down a 39-foot eagle putt, Rai found the bottom of the cup.


That putt catapulted him right back into contention, four more birdies on the more difficult back nine later, including the 68-footer on 17, sealed the biggest victory of a professional career that began 14 years ago.

Now that the tournament’s over and the Wanamaker raised, let’s admit it all, to each other and ourselves: We underestimated Aronimink and the PGA Championship. All of us. And this week, both the course and the championship made us eat our words slathered in Cheez Wiz.

The talk coming into this week was whether the PGA Championship ought to change its format to match play, whether it should move to August; indeed, whether this major even has an identity at all — not exactly the sort of issues that trouble the Masters on a year-to-year basis.

As for Aronimink, well, the grand old dame hadn’t hosted a men’s major since the 1962 PGA Championship, won by Mr. Gary Player. The only PGA Tour event played here after a complete course renovation in 2016 was held during the remnants of a tropical storm, rendering any judgments on the new version of the old Aronimink irrelevant.

So pretty much everyone arrived on the property with no idea of what to expect. They knew the legends of the treacherous greens — if we had a nickel for every time the word “undulating” was used in media coverage here, we’d be ranked among the PGA Tour money leaders this season — but they also assumed they’d have an easier time approaching them. Aronimink’s wide fairways, plus the PGA’s reputation for player-friendly setups, lured most of the field and all of the media into thinking this would be a bomber’s paradise, where the putter would rule the day and a 20-under score was in play.

“Strategy off the tee is pretty nonexistent,” McIlroy infamously declared Tuesday. “It's, basically, bash driver down there and then figure it out from there. … When these traditional golf courses take a lot of trees out, it makes strategy not as much of a concern off the tee.”

Not everyone brushed off Aronimink, though. “Honestly, when I heard people talking about 20-under par, it made me question my ability to read a golf course, because I was looking at the greens and where they could put pin locations and possible wind. … I actually got worried,” Rahm said. “I'm like, if somebody shoots 20-under, the amount of records they're going to break this week would be unheard of.”

And then the tournament began, and nobody was talking about 20-under. Nobody was talking about much of anything; they were too busy just trying to survive. Or, in the case of Garrick Higgo, trying — and failing — to get to the first tee on time.

The combination of wind, chilly weather and wicked pin placements absolutely bedeviled the entire field for the first two days. Seven players tied for the lead at -3 at the end of Thursday. Smalley and Maverick McNealy pushed that lead to -4 at the halfway mark, with another six just a stroke behind.

Frustrated players pointed in the direction of the 18 flags all over the course. “Most of the pins today were, I mean, kind of absurd,” Scheffler said. “This is the hardest set of pin locations that I've seen since I've been on Tour, and that includes U.S. Opens.”

So when the players who’d survived the cut arrived at Aronimink on Saturday, you could forgive them for feeling a little bruised and battered. As the temperature warmed up, the course offered up a brief opportunity for low scores. Multiple players peeled off 5-under rounds to leap up the leaderboard before the wind blew in and tamped down scoring late in the afternoon.

The lone exception to the afternoon lull: Smalley, who weathered a brutal three-bogeys-in-four-holes start to rebound and pull two strokes clear of the field after 54 holes. It was a remarkably consistent performance from a player who’s never even sniffed a PGA Tour win, much less high-level Sunday major competition.

“Once you see cameras show up, you know that you're doing something that's, I guess, worthy of having a camera there,” Smalley said on Saturday evening. “I just try to stay in my own little world and just try to take care of my business and just try to hit each shot the best that I can.”

The carnage on Thursday and Friday, combined with the free-for-all jailbreak of Saturday, created a Sunday leaderboard literally unlike anything we’ve ever seen before. According to Elias Sports research, the 22 players within four shots of the lead entering Sunday marked a new PGA Championship record, beating the previous high of 18 in 1993. Even better, those 22 included eight major winners, also a PGA Championship record, and just the sixth time in all of major championship history that’s happened.

The galleries at Aronimink were strong all throughout the week, Philly fans showing up and showing out for a major. No tired booing Santa Claus or Bethpage-idiot references necessary; the fans threw out a few “Go Birds” and E-A-G-L-E-S chants, particularly at Cowboys fans like Scheffler and Jordan Spieth, but everyone behaved just fine. And on Sunday, the fans had plenty to cheer about right from the jump.

With lighter winds, warmer weather and a course setup shorter than any day of the tournament before, the PGA Championship on Sunday began when Kurt Kitayama, of all players, signaled exactly how wild the day was going to get. Teeing off at 8:07 a.m. — six and a half hours before Smalley — Kitayama threw down a seven-birdie 63, tying the record for lowest final round in major history.

And then the chaos began. It’s almost easier to list which players weren’t in contention at some point on Sunday. Tiger Woods wasn’t. Jack Nicklaus wasn’t. And Scottie Scheffler, who somehow forgot how to putt inside of five feet, wasn’t either, lingering four to five strokes off the pace and unable to close the gap.

Rahm was the first to catch Smalley, birdieing his first two holes and tying Smalley at -6 at 2:49 p.m. Just 15 minutes later, Justin Thomas finished up a six-birdie, 5-under round to claim the clubhouse lead at -5.

“I would really like it if the wind would start blowing a little bit more,” Thomas joked after his round, and he got his wish. The blue and white flags atop the Aronimink grandstands fluttered with more ferocity, and perhaps not coincidentally, the scoring slowed dramatically.

Smalley spit the bit halfway through the front nine, double-bogeying the sixth and bogeying the eighth to plummet down the leaderboard. But Matti Schmid found something in his swing, carding three birdies in five holes after an opening bogey to take over at -6.

Behind Schmid at -6, Cam Smith, Rai, Nick Taylor and Rahm scuffled at -5. At the turn, DataGolf pegged Schmid as a 19.2% favorite to win, with Rahm virtually even at 19.% and Rory McIlroy — hovering at 4-under — third at 10.5%.

After the eagle at 9 got Rai back in contention, he rolled in a birdie at 11 and another at 13 to get to -7. That pushed him two strokes clear of the field — the widest gap of the day.

If he hadn’t wrestled control of the tourney by then, he did so at 16 when he piped a 338-yard drive, then put his approach at the lengthy par 5 to within 16 feet. That led to a tap-in birdie to get to -8.

The 68-footer at 17 got him to -9. And one par later, the Wanamaker was his.

