'Some brands will leave the market': Australia's car-brand reckoning is coming as newcomers and household names face the chopping block

Australia's crowded new-car market won't survive as is, with one of the country's best-known brands describing our market as a "jungle" that will cause some manufacturers to fail financially and leave.

That's the word from Volkswagen Australia's Head of Passenger Cars, Piergiorgio Minto, who has a simple answer when asked if all brands can survive in our market: "No".

"For sure some brands will leave the market," he said.

Minto has worked for Volkswagen around the world, including the Middle East, Russia and Germany, before arriving in Australia around 18 months ago.

He said that, despite his experience, he underestimated how competitive the Australian new-car market was, considering its comparative size, with new and mostly Chinese brands either launching or announcing their intention to almost monthly.

In the past few years, Australia's usually static market has swollen with the arrival of brands like Xpeng, BYD, Denza, Chery, Jaecoo, GAC, JAC, Geely, Zeekr, Smart and more. Yet more brands, including Dreame, Nio, Jetour and Forthing, have confirmed their intention to launch.

While new brand pile in and fight for market share, the pool of buyers isn't growing any bigger. And it's this, says Volkswagen, that will force brands to depart Australia.

"The Australian market was, for me, a big surprise, because I thought about it as quite a simple market. And at the end of the day, it's a very competitive market," he says. 

"It's a market that is about 1.2 million, if we take the light commercials. It's less than one million for purely passenger cars. And you have 70+ brands in it. I think it's the most crowded market in the world.

"I don't want to say it was a big surprise, because I knew a little bit about what was going on. But this was one thing where you really need to see it, to touch the situation, to be inside the situation, to get a little bit of a better feeling of what is going on.

"To understand how we need to steer the future of the brand in this kind of jungle. So I'm not worried, actually. It is a good challenge. It's something that is pushing us to find better solutions and better steering orientation."

Andrew Chesterton
Contributing Journalist

30 May 2026
2 min read